# TFLTripPlanner

Transport for London (TFL) Trip Planner is a console based application, developed in C#, and is aimed for use by two primary users. Firstly, regular users of the TFL network can use the application to find the fastest route from one station to another showing them all the stops and changes required to get from the start location to the end destination. To achieve this, Djikstra’s Shortest Path algorithm was used. Secondly, engineers responsible for maintaining the TFL network can also use the application, allowing them to add & remove delays on specific lines between stations, open and close tracks between stations, and print reports displaying delayed and closed tracks, in addition to any given station’s information.

TFL Trip Planner is available in two versions, the first is a hand coded version in relation to data structures used, meaning that it does not rely on any libraries for data structure creation, and uses primitive structures available in C# to create custom structures as classes which are then used to hold the data required for the Djikstra’s algorithm to run. On the other hand, the second version uses the data structures that are already available as part of the .NET library, both of which produce the same outcome. However,

performance may vary. This report will explain the difference in design between both versions. Moreover, it will test both versions and conduct an analysis on the algorithm to determine its efficiency.

It should also be noted that the partial data supplied by TfL was out of date in places, and this has been updated to reflect the current data. New lines within the required Circle Line tracking zone (such as the Elizabeth Line) have also been added, and the North Overground line has had its data added from related train timetables. For the data supplied by TfL, an average has been taken of the Unimpeded Running Time, AM Peak Running Time, and PM Peak Running Time, to provide an accurate summary of the possible times.
